Lets drill down a bit more in valuation now.
There's two main types of stock market investors.
Those that like stocks that are very cheap
and are not growing fast, and these types,
this is type one, they're called value investors,
and just think of Warren Buffett
when you hear the term value investor.
And value investors love companies
that issues dividends of at least a few percent per year,
and dividends are like getting interest.
When you lend money to other people,
and you could see dividends here in column Z or zed,
on your investment portfolio management system.
The second main type of stock market investors
is a growth investor, and these are investors
that love buying stocks that are currently expensive
but growing very, very fast, like Amazon,
and these growth investors, as opposed to value investors,
these growth investors think that the company
that they're investing in seem expensive
based on this year's earnings, or next year's earnings,
but not on earnings in five or 10 years.
In fact, they think these stocks are dirt cheap
if you think about how much money
those stocks can make in five or 10 years.
Now value investors criticize growth investors
for overpaying, but growth investors argue
that companies that seem expensive,
like Amazon today, can easily cut their spending
so that earnings rise dramatically,
but growth investors do not want
those companies that they invest in to cut expenses today.
They don't want them to because they want them
to focus on profits in the future and not today.
If these growth companies fired a ton
of sales people today, then their earnings
would be a lot higher, but then again,
what would happen is, growth investors wouldn't want
to invest in those companies
'cause they're growing very fast today.
So growth investors don't mind if the company's value
currently trades at many, many times higher
than the company's current earnings,
and this is referred to as priced earnings mothball,
which means how many times earnings
is the value of the company today.
So this will make sense soon.
People are usually either a growth investor
or a value investor, and a lot of younger people
that are in university are value investors
'cause they're taught to buy stuff that's cheap,
and then sometimes they change to growth investors
when they get a bit older.
So value investors love buying companies
that have a price-to-book ratio
that is closer to or under one times,
and they also like to buy stocks
that usually have lower price earnings multiple,
like under 10 times, for example, if possible.
Growth investors, on the other hand,
often invest in companies that are not profitable today,
and because the price-to-earnings ratio
can be meaningless for growth investors
if the company they're investing in is not yet profitable,
these growth investors like to look
at what's called price-to-revenue multiple.
If a company a growth investor is investing in
is growing faster than the competition,
then these growth investors expect that underlying company
to trade at a premium multiple to the competition.
And so, growth investors never look at price-to-book,
as that valuation metric is meaningless for them.
But they like to look at price-to-earnings in the long run,
and they look at price-to-earnings a little bit differently
than value investors do.
Growth investors factor in the growth of earnings
when they look at the price-to-earnings ratio.
And growth investors call this a PEG ratio,
which stands for the price-to-earnings
divided by the growth rate, and the lower the number,
the better, so if a company has a price/earnings ratio
of 30 times, meaning for every one dollar in earnings,
the market is paying 30 dollars,
if a company, again, has a price-to-earnings
or PE ratio of 30 times, but is growing earnings at 60%,
then the PEG ratio is 30 divided by 60,
which means 0.5 times.
It's a bargain, it's growing at half its growth rate.
And growth investors try to often buy companies
that are at a PEG ratio well under two times,
and if it gets closer to one or less than one,
it's a screaming buy for them,
unless something is wrong with the company.
So valuation deals with quantitative research,
and of course, both value and growth investors
need to look at quantitative research
and qualitative research,
as they also want the underlying fundamentals
of a company to be solid as well.
And so, in our portfolio dashboard,
when you see valuation data, this, of course,
is quantitative research.
In terms of qualitative research,
please look at column BB, and beside that,
called Your Research right here.
And please keep in mind that you can always click
on this plus symbol here between rows six and eight,
in order to read more information
on what every single column means
in your investment portfolio management system.
Moving on.
For this exercise, we are going to make one portfolio
with six stocks, including the top three stocks
owned by the great value investor, Warren Buffett,
and the top three stocks recommended
by growth stock newspaper and legendary growth investor,
William O'Neil.
So please go to your Excel file
and select exercise 19, Stock Valuations,
and please follow the instructions,
and then answer the questions listed on the tab.
Now, question one asks you to go to the Settings tab,
and create a six-stock portfolio
based on the top three positions of famous growth investor,
William O'Neil's Investor's Business Daily,
that's his newspaper.
And the other three of the six stocks,
the other three stocks in your portfolio,
are gonna be stocks owned by Warren Buffett
using the website listed here in question number one,
in exercise 19, and just please pause me
and then un-pause me
when you've completed question number one,
and I will show you how to get the answer, and if you want,
you can just watch me answer question number one right now,
or pause me, whatever.
My answer's actually, please be aware
that my answers are gonna be different,
a little bit different from yours,
if Warren Buffett and William O'Neil's portfolio changes.
Again, please pause me, and complete question one
or just watch me do it right now for you, thanks.
Now I always make many backups of my portfolios
and my exercises and I humbly suggest
you please do the same, so what's gonna happen is this.
We're gonna enter in some stock information together,
for exercise 19, and that is gonna overwrite
what we did in exercise 18, and the reason it will
is because it's all based on this portfolio tab here,
and let me just open this up here.
It sometimes takes a second to refresh,
but this portfolio tab here is where all the information
is gonna be reflected, for number 19.
Kinda like it was for number 18.
Okay, good.
So let's go back to exercise 19, Stock Valuations,
and let's do it, let's do it.
So we're gonna enter in three stocks
that William O'Neil has, and then three stocks
that Warren Buffett has, and we're gonna get
those three stocks each from these two websites here,
so let me go to the first one here
which is the Investor Business Daily website,
which is William O'Neil's, William O'Neil,
remember, is a growth investor,
and Warren Buffett is a value investor.
So, let's go here and let's get the three stocks
that this guy owns now.
So he's got Coherent, SIVB, and Arista, Arista Networks.
CEO is the great Jayshree.
Okay, so, COHR is the first one.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna go to here, our portfolio,
and it doesn't matter what currency you have,
but you know what you can do for fun?
I'm gonna select a new country here, Algeria.
And then, Algeria's in a, okay, good.
And we're gonna scroll down.
Again, it doesn't matter what currency you have.
It's gonna get converted anyway.
So we're gonna go down here, and we're gonna add the stocks.
We're gonna add the stocks here.
So let's do it.
So we're gonna create a new portfolio,
and what I'll do is we'll call this new portfolio
in Yahoo Finance, exercise 19, just to make it easy for us.
So all this stuff is gonna be deleted,
so I can hit Delete right now if I wanted to,
and that would delete everything directly from here.
See it's all gone.
Okay great, let's go back to 19.
Okay, great.
So we're gonna get it from this site.
All right, so the first one here is gonna be COHR.
So let's now open up a new tab, and we'll go
to finance.yahoo.com.
And we're gonna create a new portfolio
and we'll call that new portfolio,
we'll call it exercise 19.
God, it's so distracting all this stuff.
Okay, we'll go here.
My Portfolio, click it.
And then what we'll do is we'll create a portfolio here,
EXERCISE 19!
And just keep it in US dollars.
If you wanna play around with it
and other currencies, you can do that, too, but whatever.
Okay, and we're gonna add the symbols here,
so the first one was COHR.
Okay.
Let's see what the next one was.
Whoops.
Next one is over here.
SIVB.
And the next one is Arista Networks, ANET.
Okay, good, so we're done adding those three tickers.
Let's go back to the exercise now.
Next, we're gonna add a couple tickers
from Warren Buffett's portfolio.
All right, so we're gonna add growth and value stocks here.
So the first one is gonna be Wells Fargo ticker WFC.
So let's go here.
WFC comma.
Next one is Kraft, KHC, very defensive company.
KHC.
And then we've got Apple, ticker AAPL, okay.
AAPL, so interesting how Buffett's buying tech now.
Okay, great.
Hit Enter.
And now we've got all six tickers here, see?
So we've got Buffett's here.
These are value.
And then we've got the growth ones here, okay.
Okay, great.
Now, remember what we did before.
We're gonna add, we're gonna actually change
what headings we see.
In order to do that, we'll just go here, portfolio.
Click on it again, and then we can go Edit View,
and just make sure these are all selected here.
Good.
And if you miss one or two, it doesn't matter,
but I've set up the portfolios
so that it will correct any issues,
if Yahoo decides to change their API or whatever.
Okay, so now what we're gonna do
is we're gonna highlight all this stuff here.
Make sure the bottom one, all this data's selected,
down a little more, but not there.
And then I'm gonna go Copy, and we're gonna go back.
Yeah, so many ways to do stuff here.
Paste.
Here we go, great.
So I've got all this data now here.
And all that data is gonna be populated
and shown on our portfolio.
So let's go to our portfolio and I'll show you.
See it's all here.
Great, okay, cool.
And then what we're gonna do is we are gonna go back to 19,
and so, and so if we scroll down now,
we can now complete questions two through six,
and you'll notice that if you scroll down
to this table here,
which is where we're gonna get the information
for questions two through six,
all this stuff was pulled directly
off Your Portfolio dashboard, right here,
Your Portfolio, see?
All this information.
Pretty cool, pretty cool.
All right, great, so let's answer the questions.
And you'll see that it's color-coded,
value is orange or pink, whatever color that is,
and then blue is growth.
All right, let's do this here,
so question number two, in the two white boxes below,
remember, we only write in white boxes.
What is the average dividend yield for the growth investor
and what's the average dividend yield
for the value investor?
So, for the value investor, I'll just go Average,
and we'll go and get that dividend yield here.
Where's dividend yield?
Right here for the value.
See here? Enter.
Good.
And then the average dividend yield
for the growth investor, look at that,
there's no dividend yield.
No dividend yield, so it doesn't work.
I mean that's, it's an error here,
but there's no dividend yield, zero,
and that makes sense because value investors
love dividends, and growth investor don't.
Growth investors want the companies to grow
and use the money to reinvest in growth.
Okay, question three.
In the two white boxes below,
document what is the average price-to-book for growth,
and the average price-to-book for value.
So the average price-to-book for growth,
or pardon me, we'll do value first.
Price-to-book value here.
Okay.
It's 3.3 times, and the average price-to-book ratio
for growth investors, look at that,
I have Arista, wow, okay.
It's higher, and that makes sense
because value investors buy cheaper stuff
than growth people, growth investors.
All right, question four.
In these boxes here, what is the trailing PE
for the growth and value investors?
So we'll do value investor first.
Average.
Trailing PE, right here, okay.
For value investor.
19 or 20 times (mumbles) get average.
For the growth investor, trailing PE.
Okay, cool, so you could see
that the price earnings multiple
for the growth investor's way higher
than the value investor.
That makes sense because growth investors
buy expensive stuff.
All right, what is the forward price-to-earnings ratio?
All right, looking forward.
Okay, and I'll interpret this for you in a second,
so average, we'll do value investor first.
Forward here.
And then we'll do average forward for the growth.
Okay, and you could see that the growth investors,
they buy more expensive stuff than the value investors.
So, in both cases, you can see
that the P is going down, which means that earnings
are growing on average for both these groups.
But again, growth investors always buy more expensive stuff
than value investors do.
Okay, what is the average earnings growth rate
for the growth investor and value investor?
So let's do value first.
Equals average.
Here.
Average earnings growth rate is 22% for value.
And the average earnings growth rate for growth
is 58, makes sense, makes sense,
so the growth investors buy stuff
that's growing fast but is more expensive,
so if you have any questions about this exercise,
please let me know.
And again, if you go to Your Portfolio,
you're gonna see all the data that was taken directly
off of that tab we just did there.